Personas and Stories

Rodger Stevens

Rodger Stevens has worked as an admissions officer at Bob’s Ivy League University since he graduated 16 years ago. He is very familiar with high schools in New England, but has never seen an application from Pierrepont before. When he receives an application from a student at Pierrepont, he is very intrigued by the school and its unusual nature. Rodger would like to use the site in order to learn more about the school in depth so that he can better understand his applicants. He most importantly wants to learn about the unique academic culture at Pierrepont.

Trisha Wright

Trisha Wright is a mother who is interested in the Pierrepont School as a place for her 5 year old son. She works part time as a social worker who helps women who have stopped working in order to raise their children acquire jobs. Her husband commutes every day to New York City to work at an investment firm. She just moved to Connecticut, and doesn’t know much about schools in the area. She has been looking at the websites of a variety of local private schools, and is trying to find a school that she thinks will be a good environment for her son to learn and grow in. She would use the site to learn about the culture of the school, as well as get a idea of what her son’s experience at the school would be.

Jack Shmarion: Student
I am a student at Pierrepont school and I am very forgetful. My handwriting is poor and sometimes I don’t write my assignments down all the time. I would like to be able to look at the website and find out what my homework was for the day.

Taino Shogun: Teacher
I am a teacher at Pierrepont school and I was interested in being able to write reports and save them online. A template would be a lot nicer to work with, rather than editing, copying, and pasting word documents. Also, if necessary it would be easier to send these reports along to the student upon request.

Dr. Roy Givings: Neurosurgeon
I am a single father of three lovely girls currently in middle and high school. I live in Fairfield, where I practice my profession in medicine. However, the nature of my job as a Neurosurgeon demands that I travel on a frequent basis to attend to serious medical needs of many of my patients who are international. Time is one thing that I don’t have enough of, and I would relish the opportunity to be kept appraised of what is going on in my daughters’ school. 

Mrs. Worthwhile: Nanny
I am a nanny who serves the role of a guardian for three children, attending Pierrepont School in Westport. I live in Norwalk; and when I am not with the children, I am a seamstress who delights in her craft.  I am not the most computer-literate person; however, I would like to be able to get first hand updates on Pierrepont activities, especially in the winter to determine if my children have school.

Story 1.
As a very organized but busy parent, I would like to visit my forgetful son’s school’s website to update myself on necessary weekly information.

Story 2. 
As a student, I would like to visit my school website to show my friends how cool my school is.



