FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

What is your admissions philosophy?

Parents and schools share the same goal in admissions; both parties want to ensure a good fit between the child and the educational environment.  The admissions procedure at Pierrepont is designed to present parents with honest information about our curriculum and our values as a community.  Our hope is to give each applicant and parent a clear picture of the educational experience they can expect to have in our school.   
                             
                                                         
How do you determine which students would be a good fit for Pierrepont?

Admissions decisions are based on all information gathered from the application and interview process.  We consider school records, testing, our interview, and school visit to determine which candidates would thrive in our school.


Do you have open houses or tours?

We do not have open house events at Pierrepont.  We do have parent tours each Thursday from October to the end of January.  The Head of School or the Associate Head of School leads parent tours.  During a tour, the parents of prospective applicants will have an opportunity to view classes, ask questions, and meet some of the faculty.


Are there specific entry grades for new students?

No, please see below.


Do you admit high school students?  

We will consider freshman candidates in special circumstances, but in general, the difficulty of integrating older students into our curriculum precludes high school admissions.   By the time Pierrepont students reach high school most have studied Latin, Greek and Mandarin Chinese for several years and are at least a grade level ahead in mathematics and science; therefore, it is not always possible to place incoming high school students within our existing groups.


Do you require standardized testing for admission?

Students entering K-3 do not need to submit standardized test scores.  Students applying for fourth grade and above must submit their results from the CMT, ISEE, and/or ERB. 


What are the tuition fees for 2015 – 2016?

Year of Birth            Tuition

????????????????????????????????


Do you offer financial aid?

Yes, Pierrepont offers need-based financial aid to students.  Please download our application packet for more information on our financial aid policy and procedure.   The financial aid deadline is February 15, 2015.


What are Pierrepont’s school hours?

The school opens at 8:00 AM Monday through Friday.
Classes are held 8:30-3:25 Monday through Friday.
Afterschool activities are held from 3:25-4:10 Monday through Thursday.


What is the average class size?     

?


At what age does foreign language study begin?

Most Pierrepont students begin foreign language study at age nine.


What languages do you offer?

We offer Latin, Ancient Greek and Mandarin Chinese to students beginning at age nine.  French is offered in high school only.


At what age does standardized testing begin?

We administer the ERB CTP4 once a year starting in the spring of each student’s fourth grade year and continue until the student reaches eighth grade. 


What arts classes do you offer?

Arts classes are fully integrated into the school day.  All Pierrepont students study music, studio art, dance and theater in addition to their academic classes. 


Do you have a sports program?

We have no team sports at Pierrepont School.  However, we offer intramural soccer in the fall and spring.  In addition, many of our students participate in rowing at local clubs.


What extracurricular activities do you offer?

???????????????????????????