I was both profoundly sad and deeply honored to assume leadership of Pierrepont after the death of our first Head of School, Barbara O’Rourke.  Losing both a mentor and friend was difficult for me, indeed, for the entire school; yet, somehow, surviving the loss has shown the resilience and fortitude of our small, vibrant community.  The school whose leadership I inherited is an extraordinary place.  Our eighty-five students span kindergarten through high school. Each day they fearlessly study ancient languages and texts; they struggle with mathematical theorems and construct scientific experiments; they learn African dance and perform Shakespeare and Euripides.  Our curriculum is rigorous and robust, yet is infused with the joy for learning that forms the very foundation of the school.    I recognize both the opportunity and responsibility that comes with the leadership of this young school.  Over the past eleven years, I worked side by side, first with Eleanor Beer, and then in our current location with Barbara, to build an institution and understand the challenges we face as we mature.  More than any of the academic institutions I’ve encountered over my twenty years in education, Pierrepont is clear on its vision:  to provide academically-engaged children with an almost uniquely rich and vibrant academic environment.  The foundations of the program are complex:  attracting and retaining the highest quality faculty, providing a supportive environment to the students to foster academic risk-taking, developing curricular materials that are thorough yet engaging, managing the day to day vagaries of classroom dynamics, among other things.  Going forward, I am confident that we will remain true to this vision as we complete the high school curriculum and our first students enter college.  Great teachers create a lasting impact. I know this from my own experience as a student. My mentors from college, the poet Rosanna Warren and the late classicist William Arrowsmith, instilled in me a willingness to invest in my work, a love of enduring texts, and the value of a life rich in literature and the arts.  Each teacher that we hire has this potential:  to be that memorable mentor.  Our principal job as an academic institution is to provide an environment where students can internalize a love of learning, work with teachers for whom learning is a lifelong endeavor, identify their true passions and interests at an early age, and be prepared for academic pursuits after Pierrepont. 
Four years ago, my son began his education at Pierrepont, starting in a classroom with other five year olds surrounded by an energetic, dedicated faculty.  As a parent, I am grateful for my son to spend his childhood as a part of this community; as an educator, I am honored to lead it.
Nancy M. Webber
