OVERVIEW

 
The Pierrepont School is a small, independent, co-educational elementary and high school based in Westport, Connecticut. Founded in 1999, the school moved into its current building on Sylvan Road in the fall of 2002. The school enrolls students from kindergarten through high school ages.

The school currently consists of ?????? students, K–12, and ?????? full and part-time teachers, offering a student to faculty ratio of ??????. Classes, therefore, are small, and student schedules are individualized. Senior faculty members typically have post-graduate degrees from leading universities and are professionally active in their fields. The school seeks and supports teachers who bring into the classroom the same passion and rigor they bring to the study of their own discipline. (See individual faculty under each discipline.)

Pierrepont seeks students who are academically motivated and engaged and who can participate successfully in a demanding curriculum. Chronological age serves as a tentative guide for placement that is answerable to the variegations in academic skills, needs and maturity among children. The schedule allows for individualized placement as students are departmentalized from the earliest ages. As a result, even the youngest students have classes with teachers who are specialists in their disciplines, although they also spend significant time in a homeroom under the care of a master teacher and an associate teacher.

Starting at about five years old, students are fully departmentalized and have a schedule that consists of English, history, math, science, and the first of a four year grammar/reading sequence that prepares the students to study foreign language. In the final year of the grammar sequence, students are offered the opportunity to study Mandarin Chinese. Once the students have completed the grammar sequence, they begin the formal study of Latin. After one year of Latin, ancient Greek is available as an elective.  French is offered in the High School.  The students eligible for this course are currently studying two languages in which they have demonstrated ample mastery.  In addition, all students have classes in art, music, dance and theater twice a week.

The Pierrepont School does not give grades. Parents receive written assessments of their child’s progress four times a year. A cover report from the Head of School or Associate Head of School accompanies the June reports. The school closes for two days, one in November and one in April, for parent-teacher conferences. Standardized testing (ERB) in basic skills areas (math and language/reading) is administered annually. 
Pierrepont is currently accepting applications for the 2014 – 2015 school year. School tours for prospective parents are conducted on Thursdays at 11:00 AM beginning in October. Please call Tundé Jackson to arrange for a tour. Tuition assistance is available according to financial need.

The Pierrepont School does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, gender, religion, age, ancestry, national origin, or sexual orientation in the administration of its educational programs, admission policies, financial aid policies, or any other school-administered programs.